---
id: monitoring
title: Network monitoring
sidebar_label: Network monitoring
---

Monitoring what is happening on the network is essential to improve it and measure the social impact of our solutions. The main objective of the monitoring tools is to produce decentralized and reliable information about each node and the activity of the network.

## On-Chain monitoring
There is a collection of [smart contracts and utilities for EOSIO](https://github.com/AlohaEOS/eos-mechanics) that can be used in LatamLink.

The metrics are generated by smart contracts located under the eosmechanics account. They are executed during the schedule of each block producer and records the execution times using the cpu_usage_us field included in all network transactions. The data will be publicly available for analysis and we encourage you to do so to help identify problems and improve the performance of block producers.

Examples of tools that use this data:

- [EOS Block Producer Benchmarks](https://www.alohaeos.com/tools/benchmarks)
- [Block Producer Performance](https://labs.eostitan.com/#/block-producer-performance)

### CPU Benchmark
This CPU speed metric uses the CPU time consumed by calculating the Mersenne prime numbers as a benchmark. Prime number calculation is an industry standard for measuring CPU performance and uses code operations that are common in software development.

### RAM Benchmark
This metric consists of quickly writing and reading to a RAM table and in a very similar way to the CPU metric it tries to measure the performance of the resources offered by the different block producers.

### Monitoring Contracts examples:

- [EOS Block Producer Benchmarks](https://www.alohaeos.com/tools/benchmarks)
- [Block Producer Performance](https://labs.eostitan.com/#/block-producer-performance)


## Voluntary disclosure of node information

Allows node operators to publicly announce their ownership of a LAC-Chain account and share information about themselves.

Think of a WHOIS for LAC-Chain accounts that are verified by a blockchain signature. These fields all require a Single Sign-on that is authenticated through the blockchain and therefore cannot be wrong. Only the BP with the correct key can edit these fields using the user interface.


### Phase 1
#### 1. Basic UI complete
#### 2. Auto-generated list of all block producers pulled from the blockchain.
 - Node account name
 - Node entity type
 - Node public key
 - Location Code

#### 3. Voluntary information provided by each entity
 - Legal Name
 - ID Number 
 - Address
 - Website
 - Email
 - Social links
 - Branding
 - Code of conduct
 
#### EOSIO Nodes
- Node Locations
- API and P2P endpoints
 - Validators
 - Writer Nodes
 - History API nodes
 - API nodes
 - Boot Nodes
 
### Phase II
#### Performance
 - Missed blocks in X period of time * *Involuntary*
 - Missed rounds in X period of time * *Involuntary*
 - Total number of blocks produced * *Involuntary*
 - Average position in BP list * *Involuntary*
 - Average performance rating * *Involuntary*
 - Total downtime 
 - Outages
 - Stress testing
 - Patch management
 - DR capability
 - Intrusion testing

#### Infrastructure
- Physical / Public Cloud / Shared
	* Primary site
	* Secondary site
- Infra diagram
- DDoS protection
- Firewalls
- Load balancers
- VPN Y/N
- Future plans

### Phase III

#### Support structure
 - Number of technical employees
 - 24/7 support
 - Monitoring tools
 - Communication plan with other BPs
	
#### Ownership structure
 - BP self written description of business structure
 - Number of employees
 - Individual interest holders
 - Business entity shareholders
 - Affiliated entities
	
#### Cloud monitoring

Take advantage of the existing cloud monitoring services.

 - Prometheus
 - Grafana

Additionally, we will explore Blockchain Analytics tools and Data Science.

### Network Monitor

We propose to create a native [network monitor](monitor.md) to achieve this objective. 
