---
id: performance
title: Network Performance and Security
sidebar_label: Performance and Security
---

It is essential to know the limits of the infrastructure from cybersecurity and performance perspective.

LACChain EOSIO will periodically conduct cybersecurity analysis and evaluations in the infrastructure. As well as coordinate stress tests.

## Transactions per seconds (TPS)
EOSIO 2 introduces performance enhancements for smart contract processing placing EOSIO amongst the most performant blockchain protocols that exist.

The [Jungle Testnet has registered **9,656** transactions per second](https://www.eosgo.io/news/eosio-reaches-new-transaction-per-second-record) conducting stress tests and the EOS mainnet has registered **3,996** maximum TPS in a production environment.

EOSIO core developers are constantly improving performance and claim that, depending on the use, EOSIO has the capability of **10,000+ transactions per second** using EOSIO v2.0.

## LACChain EOSIO Stress Tests
A series of scripts have been developed in order to submit a large amount of transactions simultaneously to the network in order to gauge the capacity and performance of the network. These scripts are meant to be run simultaneously by a group of participants in order to reach the intended transaction volume. Stress tests should be coordinated by partners and scheduled periodically.

### Token Transfer Test 
    
This test is a simple token transfer such as the transaction generated by the following cleos command :

```
cleos push action eosio.token transfer '["stresstest.a", "stresstest.b", "0.0001 TEST", "memo"]' -p stresstest.a@active
```

Notice there is a specific token symbol `TEST` issued strictly for testing purposes. 

LAC Chain requires two actions for each transaction, one action must be signed by the writer node, this script prepares the transactions with both required actions to meet the LAC Chain protocol. 

You must provide a writer node account in the test configuration. 

#### Stress Test works in two steps. 

1. Prepares TXs and stores them in files. 
2. Pushes all transactions at the same time.

#### Stress Test Scripts

The stress test scripts are kept in a private repository, if you are interested participating in a stress test please contact the LACChain tech team.

## EOSIO performance resources

- [Improving node performance](https://github.com/atticlab/eos-bp-performance)
- [Performance tests Contract](https://github.com/CryptoLions/TxShooterContract)
- [EOS Blaster](https://github.com/michaeljyeates/eos-blaster)

## Quantum safe cryptography

 BID has an interest in beginning to explore how to go-ahead towards one new quantum-secure blockchain technology generation. There is an interest in testing the quantum capabilities of the LACChain network to make it quantum-computers secure.

 > This topic is addressed in [this IADB publication](https://publications.iadb.org/es/tecnologias-cuanticas-una-oportunidad-transversal-e-interdisciplinar-para-la-transformacion-digital)

LACChain EOSIO will explore the way to generate certificates following the verifiable credentials standard [VC](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/) to all nodes in the network which will have as an authentication mechanism one public-private key pairs generated with a quantum-secure algorithm.

In order to:

- Use these keys to encapsulate the process of [communication between nodes through TCP / RPLx](https://github.com/lacchain/besu-network/blob/master/TOPOLOGY_AND_ARCHITECTURE.md)
-  Use the quantum keys to sign the transactions issued by writer nodes, so that be verified by validators nodes

:::note Work in Progress
We are still working on this aspect of the documentation, if you want to improve the content you can learn [how to contribute](./guides/contribute). See the [Project Roadmap](./roadmap).
:::