---
id: traceability
title: Transaction Traceability 
sidebar_label: Traceability
---

## Permisions and traceability in EOSIO
In EOSIO all transactions are linked to an account, for example if you want to call the action of a contract, the call will be accompanied by a source account that consumes that action of the smart contract.

Unlike other blockchains, no action is anonymous, considering that the permission to create new accounts could be delegated exclusively to the writers in the BESU topology, all actions, regardless of how they enter the network, could be linked to the writer who created the account.

## Traceability of actions on LACChain

In this preliminary proposal, privileged permissions can be dynamically delegated to different entities and sub-entities, for example to a legal committees within the permissioning committee or to technical representatives within the committee.

We propose to delegate account creation permissions to writer nodes, this permission can be modified in turn by an organization / committee to conform to legal and operational requirements.

### Account Creation
The following steps are proposed for the creation of accounts and use of the resources of the chain.

1. Permission to create new accounts is delegated exclusively to writers / writers.

2. A writer `writerbobby1` creates a new account `aliceaccount`.

3. In the chart of accounts, `aliceaccount` has`writerbobby1` defined as the writer who created the account.
4. The writer decides how to distribute resources to Alice based on the requirements defined by the committee, he can choose to transfer resources, delegate them, co-sign transactions.
5. Alice uses network resources.

### Traceability, damage control and liability

In case the resources of the chain are being used outside the scope proposed by the committee, the following scenario arises.

1. The account is identified abusing the resources
2. The writer responsible for the creation of that account is identified (information published in the chain)
3. Writer Notified
4. The committee can choose to act in different ways:

	- Delegate responsibility for control to the writer.
	- Disable the abusing account.
	- Disable all accounts generated by the writer.
	- Do not disable accounts but temporarily delegate resources.
	- Order the validators to blacklist the account.
	- Other actions that comply with legal and operational requirements.

5. Once the situation is controlled, it is subject to the committee how to carry out the arbitration that responds to the committee's requirements.
